
1.What is java?
   Java is an high level programming language and interpreted programming language java is an used to build a software application.java is an basically object oriented language it is an open source 

2.Explain java execution?
    The java can be exicuted using JDK kit the jdk kit can be contain JRE and JVM it helps to run an java.when we write a java code it will be saved using java extension after that the source code can be converted into a byte code the jvw will help to convert the source code into a byte code after that using a java and file name we will be execute a program using an JRE.

3.what is data type and explaine types of data type?
   The data type is a used find the what kind of data will be stored in a variable and it will have some size store a value in a variable. the data type can be categorised into a two two types and further it will also be divided. 
*primitive data type
*non primitive data type

Primitive data type-the primitive data type is a type of data type in that it have a fixed size to store a value in a variable 
  *it store a single value and single value
  *the first letter of the data type is must be lowercase
  *this data type can be predefined data type
 
The are 8 primitive data type, they are

1.int-the int data type can be store a integer value it can be positive value or negative value it can store an both values and it must be a whole number.

2.float-the float value can also store a negative and positive value but it would be fraction number or can have a decimal point and when we declare value to the variable we give suffix f.

3.char-the char can be store a single value within a quotes

4.short-this datatype can be a fixed size it can be a whole number 

5.boolean-the boolean variable can be give an output either in the true or false value it will be check and give an output in true or false

6.double-the double can be store a decimal value having large size compare to float

7.byte-the byte is a data type used to store an whole number value

8.long-the long data type is used store store large value the number can be exceeding to 9 number giving an and giving an suffix of l

Non primitive data type-the non primitive data type can be have 4 types and the starting letter should be capital but in this there is no fixed size
1.string-the string is sequence of characters it can be declared inside a double quotes 

2.object-*object is an instance of class
         *copies of class

4.what is variable types of variable?
   The variable is a name given to a value to access the memory location.the variable can be change whenever we require
      There is a 4 types of variable
1.instance variable-the instance variable is a variable it can be declared inside a class and outside of any method it can be access by creating object.

2.Static variable-the static variable is a variable that can be declared inside a class and outside an any method using a static keyword.

3.local variable-the local variable can be declared inside a method is called local variables.

4.parameterized variable-the parameterised variable can be declare in the parenthesis of a method and can be accessed.


5.what is array?
   The array can be store a homogenous data type value.Multiple value can be stored in a single variable and can be accessed using an inndex number.The index number will be start from an index 0.The value can be separated by coma

6.what is method ?explain types of method

     The method is an block code is used perform a specific task
*this will be help to reduce length of code
*the method can be invoke whenever we require without writing the code
*the code can be reusable 

The method can be divided into two type, they are

 -user define method->the user define method can be user can be define and created the method 
 -pre-defined method->The pre-define method can be a already defined method by the programmer 
    *static method
    *instance method 

7.what is constructor?

   The constructor is a special kind of method .the constructor name should be same as the class name.the constructor method can be created to the object the value can be change from one object to another.
  
    
    

   



 


